docs/user_setup.md, before:

# User setup

## Getting started

If you just want to run a gateway on a raspberry pi, you are just right here! First of all you should check all prerequisites and then choose your setup method. This manual will use raspbian on a raspberry pi 4. But any raspberry pi or debian system should work the same.

## tl;dr
Head over to [your github settings](https://github.com/settings/tokens){:target="_blank"} and generate a new classic token with only "read:packages" permission set. You should set the generated token as environment variable to persist it (you will only see it once):
```{bash}
echo "CR_PAT=<your copied token>" >> ~/.bash_profile
```
Now you have to do docker login with your github username like this:
```{bash}
echo $CR_PAT | docker login ghcr.io -u <your_username> --password_stdin
```
To install the services and cli run:
```{bash}
curl "https://bchwtz.github.io/bchwtz-gateway/dist/install-gw.sh" | sh
```
This step spins up a local gateway-cluster and installs all necessary packages on your pi.
## Uninstalling auto installed packages
To remove the gateway-service from your device change to the folder you installed the gateway-autoinstall to and cd into the gateway-autoinstall directory. From there you have to run:
```{bash}
./uninstall-gw.sh
```
This script will require sudo priviledge.
## Manual install of the repository (old way)
### Prerequesites
To run the software you will need:

* a debian-based linux
* a raspberry pi 4
* docker
* git

### Install requirements

In any case you should install git and docker on your platform:
```{bash}
sudo apt update
sudo apt install git docker.io
# adding pi to docker group now, so we can use docker without root
sudo usermod -aG docker pi
```
After this step you have to logout and login.

### Cloning the repository
```{bash}
git clone https://github.com/bchwtz/bchwtz-gateway.git gateway && cd gateway
```

### Running the software in docker (recommended)
This step will run all required components inside a docker container.

```{bash}
./run_on_pi.sh
```

### Download the go client
To be able to run the go client on a raspberry pi please head to the [releases page](https://github.com/bchwtz/bchwtz-gateway/releases) and download the gw_arm64 bin to your projects folder on the pi.  
The following should work then:
```{bash}
mkdir -p bin
# moves the binary of the cli to a new folder named bin
mv gw-arm64 bin/gw
# changes the execution rights
chmod +x bin/gw
```

You're all set!

Commit message:

added token install to manual setup

docs/user_setup.md, after:

# User setup

## Getting started

If you just want to run a gateway on a raspberry pi, you are just right here! First of all you should check all prerequisites and then choose your setup method. This manual will use raspbian on a raspberry pi 4. But any raspberry pi or debian system should work the same.

## tl;dr
Head over to [your github settings](https://github.com/settings/tokens){:target="_blank"} and generate a new classic token with only "read:packages" permission set. You should set the generated token as environment variable to persist it (you will only see it once):
```{bash}
echo "CR_PAT=<your copied token>" >> ~/.bash_profile
```
Now you have to do docker login with your github username like this:
```{bash}
echo $CR_PAT | docker login ghcr.io -u <your_username> --password_stdin
```
To install the services and cli run:
```{bash}
curl "https://bchwtz.github.io/bchwtz-gateway/dist/install-gw.sh" | sh
```
This step spins up a local gateway-cluster and installs all necessary packages on your pi.
## Uninstalling auto installed packages
To remove the gateway-service from your device change to the folder you installed the gateway-autoinstall to and cd into the gateway-autoinstall directory. From there you have to run:
```{bash}
./uninstall-gw.sh
```
This script will require sudo priviledge.
## Manual install of the repository (old way)
### Prerequesites
To run the software you will need:

* a debian-based linux
* a raspberry pi 4
* docker
* git

### Install requirements

In any case you should install git and docker on your platform:
```{bash}
sudo apt update
sudo apt install git docker.io
# adding pi to docker group now, so we can use docker without root
sudo usermod -aG docker pi
```
After this step you have to logout and login.

### Cloning the repository
```{bash}
git clone https://github.com/bchwtz/bchwtz-gateway.git gateway && cd gateway
```

### Running the software in docker (recommended)
This step will run all required components inside a docker container.
First, head over to [your github settings](https://github.com/settings/tokens){:target="_blank"} and generate a new classic token with only "read:packages" permission set. You should set the generated token as environment variable to persist it (you will only see it once):
```{bash}
echo "CR_PAT=<your copied token>" >> ~/.bash_profile
```
Now you have to do docker login with your github username like this:
```{bash}
echo $CR_PAT | docker login ghcr.io -u <your_username> --password_stdin
```
```{bash}
./run_on_pi.sh
```

### Download the go client
To be able to run the go client on a raspberry pi please head to the [releases page](https://github.com/bchwtz/bchwtz-gateway/releases) and download the gw_arm64 bin to your projects folder on the pi.  
The following should work then:
```{bash}
mkdir -p bin
# moves the binary of the cli to a new folder named bin
mv gw-arm64 bin/gw
# changes the execution rights
chmod +x bin/gw
```

You're all set!
